In the last lecture, we learned how we can subscribe to our params to update them or to react to any
changes to them and
update our page
if we already are on that page. Now we set up this subscription using observables and this works fine
and you don't have to change anything here,
I want to bring something to your attention though, the fact that you don't have to add anything else
to this component here simply is because Angular does something for you in the background which is super
important,
it cleans up the subscription you set up here whenever this component is destroyed because if it wouldn't
do this, what are you doing here? You're subscribing to parameter changes and let's say you then leave
this component and later you come back.
Well once you left, this component will be destroyed
and when you come back, a new one will be created but this subscription here will always live on in memory
because it's not closely tied to your component,
so if the component is destroyed, the subscription won't. Now it will be here because Angular handles this
destroying of the subscription for you
but theoretically, you might want to implement the onDestroy lifecycle hook, importing it from
@angular/core,
therefore you have to implement ngOnDestroy and then you could store the subscription here in
some property,
let's name it
params subscription which will be of type subscription and subscription needs to be imported from
rxjs/subscription.
Rxjs is the package offering all these observables functionality, as I mentioned it's
not shipping with Angular but Angular is using this package.
So this type here, this subscription, this params subscription property is now bound to this subscription we're
setting up here when calling subscribe, this returns us the subscription
and once the component gets destroyed, we could now access the subscription and unsubscribe.
And again because it's important, you don't have to do this, you can leave it as it was before because
Angular will do this for you regarding these route observables
but if you add your own observables and I will come back to this in the observable section following
this section, you have to unsubscribe on your own
and I just wanted to bring it to your attention because it's always super important to understand what's
happening behind the scenes.
Again, it's not necessary here but it doesn't hurt to also do it manually too here,
it won't add anything bad to your app by doing it like this.